f12.md, before:

**F12 Project Eden Nordic PVE Empyrion Server**

This page contains information the **F12** server running [Project Eden](#project-eden), a custom scenario in [Empyrion - Galactic Survival][egs].

* TOC
{:toc}

# Discord

The server has an accompanying [Discord](https://discord.com/) server, open to anyone playing on the **F12** server.

You can join it by clicking [here][joindiscord], or by clicking on the + inside Discord and entering the code **`ataYfPV`**.

If you have questions about the game, about the server, or preferrably just want to hang out, feel free to join. You will most likely find us in the `#Empyrion` voice channel.

The official language on the Discord server in the Empyrion game channels is English, though you will most likely hear a smattering of Norwegian from time to time. Pester us about it and we'll improve :)

# Code of Conduct

This is a **PvE** server. There is some information that might indicate that some areas, playfields, in the game are flagged as **PvP**. This is unsupported and unwelcome. This is **not** a **PvP** server, purely **PvE**. Should there be incidents where players outright grief or kill other players with intent, the admins will almost certainly have a word with you.

If anyone finds a playfield marked as PvP, please let an admin know. We don't know if we can change it safely but at least being aware of which playfields are marked as such would be useful.

Also note that surface area around bases might be deformable by anyone, in any faction. This is also considered griefing if it is not done with the approval of the owner(s) of the base, so please don't do that. Again, overly aggressive griefing will be dealt with.

Other than that, **be nice**, **respect others** and above all else, **have fun**. Hit the full stop, or *dot*, to open the textchat in game and chat us up, or preferrably join the discord channel (see [Discord](#discord)).

# Reset times

All times shown here are in relation to [Norwegian Time][nortime] which currently is following **CEST - Central European Summer Time** a.k.a **GMT+2**.

## Summary

* The server performs a **restart** every **morning** at **03:00**.
* **Deposits** on planets reset every **morning** at **03:00**.
* Points of Interests (**POI**s) reset every **Tuesday** and **Friday** at **03:00** .
  * This includes ore **asteroids**

## More information

Every morning at 03:00 the server performs a restart. Players will be warned in advance, usually about 15 minutes before, 10 minutes before and 5 minutes before. Players should
log out to avoid anomalies. The restart doesn't take long *(need info here)* so if you want to keep playing, wait for it to reappear in your server list to rejoin.

Planetary deposits resets during this server restart. This will in most cases reset the terrain above the deposits, but depending on how big of an area of the surrounding terrain has been mined there may still be artefacts of mining present. The ores should be back, however.

POIs are reset twice a week, every Tuesday and Friday during server restart. Structures will then respawn, surrounding terrain should be reset, and loot inside will be randomized.

**Warning:** Please read the section on [Known Issues](#known-issues) further below for information about **Autominers**.

# Project Eden

This server is running the [Project Eden][pe] custom scenario.

This scenario adjusts balance in multiple ways, and if you're interested in a full rundown of all its facets, please follow the above link to the Steam Workshop page for all the information you want.

Here, however, are some of the most important changes this scenario brings, compared to the standard game.

* Ore distribution has changed

    Starter planets does not have Cobalt. Zascosium and Erestrum is not found in the starting system, so in order to find some you either have to raid POIs and hope to get some, or create a minimal CV with warp capabilities in order to find nearby systems which has these resources. This change was done to slow down the progress towards end game.
* Many many many more POI types

    Expect many more diverse wreckages and ruins scattered across the universe. The Project Eden scenario contains over 1000 custom POI structures, in addition to all the ones found in the standard game. This makes the game more enjoyable as there is much more variety to the places you visit.
* Almost all deposits on planets use the "nugget style" instead of the "different texture" style. Having an Ore Detector in your inventory is a good idea.
* More diverse starting planets, and more starting planets in general
* Custom created planets and moons, in rare cases to have an extreme amount of a certain type of resource

# Factions

Every new player joins the **Human** faction. It is recommended that you leave this faction and create your own for you and your friends, instead of staying in the common Human faction.

**Warning:** If you have already built bases or vessels in the game before you opt to move to your own faction, *remember* to set everything as **Private** in the control panel of each construct before leaving the Human faction. If you forget, you lose access to your creation. If this happens to you, please ask for admin help to fix this.

The reason behind this recommendation is that if you're in a faction with many other players, you lose the ability to share your bases and vessels with only a select group of people, as the only choices you have are private (aka only you), or everybody in the faction. You *can* set codes on many blocks to allow only people who know the code to use them, but this gets very cumbersome fast.

Additionally, if someone goes to war against Polaris, and the Human faction ends up with Hostile faction relationship with them, your bases will be attacked by Polaris, and more importantly, *you will lose access to their trading stations*. As such, you want to be in control of your own fate.

If, as a new player, you end up inheriting hostile relationship with Talon or Polaris, and this is brought over to your new faction, please ask for admin help to rectify this.

# Server Settings

The [Empyrion][egs] game has plenty of settings, so here is a list of the settings that have been specifically set for this server.

* Difficulty: **Hard**

    Enemies are tougher to kill and hit harder. Expect more drones in sectors. POIs can be deadly *(but they are still possible*).
* CPU Points: **Disabled**

    Please read more about the [CPU Efficiency][cpu] if you want more information, but the important part is that CPU points and thus (in)efficiency have been turned off on this server. All bases and vessels always operate at 100% CPU efficiency regardless of presence of CPU Extenders. Some players, like me, still like to make the constructs CPU Compliant, but this is a personal choice and by no means necessary. See the [Hints](#hints) section further below for some information about how this might impact your gameplay.
* Check Mass / Volume: **Disabled**

    You are a superhuman. You can carry big constructors and thousands of big steel blocks without breaking a sweat. Cargo containers only check the amount of occupied slots inside, not what you have in them. You will likely see this in game as a "X / Y" ratio down and to the right of all inventories and the X can *far* overshoot the Y. This is not a problem. The reason for this decision is that most players feel that playing with volume and weight limits enabled makes the game much much more of a hassle than it makes it fun, so this has been turned off.
* Auto Miner Depletion: **Disabled**

    Autominers does not deplete deposits. However, see [Known Issues](#known-issues) below for some *important* information about autominers on this server.
* Keep inventory on death: **Nothing**

    When you die, a backpack container will be dropped with **all** the belongings you had on you. This includes everything in your inventory **and** on your toolbar. It does **not**, however, include your armor and boosts inserted into it. Everything else, however, is dropped.
* Blueprints: **Allowed**

    See the section [Hints](#hints) below for some more information about blueprints.

# Chatbot

A chatbot has been activated on the server. You can access it by typing in `cb:?` in any of the textchat tabs. Try using the faction tab to minimze the spam for others. Make sure to spell it correct, you need both the colon and the question mark for it to be valid.

The chatbot can help with some common issues, such as moving you to a nearby ship, or getting information about when things happen on the server. The `cb:?` command will give you a list of all supported commands. Note that some of these commands give you "cheat like" functions, such as the one which moves you to your ship. They are, however, a crutch to lean on if bugs crop up and no admin is online. Use with caution.

# Admin services

The [Empyrion][egs] game is not bug free. There are some minor issues that crop up from time to time. If you need help resolving an issue that can be attributed to a bug in the game, please ask for help from an admin. Admins are not always on, so there might not be an immediate resolution to your issue, but please ask in game for help and the online players will help if they can.

Examples of services an admin can help with:

* Restoring a broken vessel from backup
* Move you, or your vessels
* Change the faction or ownership of structures
* Refund lost materials or gear

Also see [Known Issues](#known-issues) further below for some of the usual stuff in this regard.

Note that an admin will probably not help you with restoring lost vessels or materials that were lost because of normal gameplay. For instance, if you venture into
a level 10 Zirax area and your ship is shot down, with all your resources, you need to be prepared to handle that loss and possibly fight to get your ship or stuff
back. This is part of the game. Bugs, however, should ot be.

# Hints

Here are a bunch of helpful hints to help you play [Empyrion][egs] on the **F12** server (or just in general).

* You can use your drone (hit F5) to pick up your backpack, if you can get close enough to it, and the drone has unobstructed access to it
* In the very early stages of the game, it might be more efficient to just die of hunger than to constantly deal with finding materials for creating 1 food unit
* If you find a really nice blueprint on the [Workshop][workshop], that is CPU compliant (usually says CPU T2, T3 or T4), but it is too costly for you to build in game (the Optronic parts are usually the culprits), a tip is to create a creative local savegame. Spawn it in creative mode (which is free), take out the parts you don't need (like these CPU Extenders), point at the construct and hit Alt+O and save your modified construct under a new blueprint name, and then you can build this one on the server instead.
* If you subscribe to blueprints in the workshop, remember to exit the game completely to get them loaded into the game. The download is performed by the Steam client, and it will only do so once the game has completely exited. This also means you need to have Steam running to get the blueprints downloaded. After they are downloaded you can log back into the game, and they will appear in the Blueprint section in your control panel.
* To make a cargo container or other block available for use by non-faction people, you can set a code to it. People who know the code can then use it by inputting it every time they want to use the block. If you want everyone to be able to use it, you can use the special code `0000`, as the block will then become public and no code input will be required. Note that this does not allow people to remove the block with a Multi Tool, only to *operate* it.

# Known Issues

* Sometimes you can get stuck in an endless loading screen while loading structures. It happens rarely, but it does happen. This is most likely a bug in the game and nothing with the server, as most players can resolve this by forcibly quitting the game (Alt+F4) and retrying. Sometimes it takes several attempts. A theory is that the bug is related to loading of complex structures and playfields, so depending on where you are in the game it may occur more or less often.
* Sometimes after having loaded in you notice that your base or your ships seems to be cut in half, turned off, and you might be standing on rock below where the missing portions of your ship or base is located. If this happens, try to move to a spot where you *know* that you are inside your base, or on safe ground, and then relog. This is a loading bug in 99.99% cases and a relog usually fixes this straight away. If something is still missing after one or two such relogs, please seek help from an admin.
* Autominers placed on deposits will be **wiped** during server restart every morning at 03:00. You can use Autominers on this server, but you **must** retrieve them **and** their content before server reset or you *will lose them*. If this has already happened to you because you did not know about this problem, please seek admin help. This is an issue with the way the deposits are reset and not by choice. As such there is nothing we can do about this problem right now other than to be aware of it.

# Location

The server is located in Oslo, Norway. This is rather unimportant to most people but if you have very high latency to the server, this might be important.

# Contact Information

This page maintained by Cabbot a.k.a Lasse Vågsæther Karlsen. If there is anything wrong or missing on this page, or you have suggestions for additional content to add, feel free to chat me up in game or by [sending me an email](mailto:lasse@vkarlsen.no?subject=F12+Server+Information), you can also file an issue [here](https://github.com/lassevk/lassevk.github.io/issues/new).

  [pe]: https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=1742662471
  [egs]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/383120/Empyrion__Galactic_Survival/
  [joindiscord]: https://discord.gg/ataYfPV
  [nortime]: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/norway/oslo
  [cpu]: https://steamcommunity.com/app/383120/discussions/0/1660069015239758140/
  [workshop]: https://steamcommunity.com/app/383120/workshop/

Commit message:

Mention the linked discord chat

f12.md, after:

**F12 Project Eden Nordic PVE Empyrion Server**

This page contains information the **F12** server running [Project Eden](#project-eden), a custom scenario in [Empyrion - Galactic Survival][egs].

* TOC
{:toc}

# Discord

The server has an accompanying [Discord](https://discord.com/) server, open to anyone playing on the **F12** server.

You can join it by clicking [here][joindiscord], or by clicking on the + inside Discord and entering the code **`ataYfPV`**.

If you have questions about the game, about the server, or preferrably just want to hang out, feel free to join. You will most likely find us in the `#Empyrion` voice channel.

The official language on the Discord server in the Empyrion game channels is English, though you will most likely hear a smattering of Norwegian from time to time. Pester us about it and we'll improve :)

There is a linked text chat on Discord named `#empyrion`, found under the `CHATS` general heading. This one is linked to global chat in game on the server. This means you can talk to people that are online even if you are only online through Discord, or vice versa. Keep up with your friends and what is happening on the server, even while you are not actually playing.

# Code of Conduct

This is a **PvE** server. There is some information that might indicate that some areas, playfields, in the game are flagged as **PvP**. This is unsupported and unwelcome. This is **not** a **PvP** server, purely **PvE**. Should there be incidents where players outright grief or kill other players with intent, the admins will almost certainly have a word with you.

If anyone finds a playfield marked as PvP, please let an admin know. We don't know if we can change it safely but at least being aware of which playfields are marked as such would be useful.

Also note that surface area around bases might be deformable by anyone, in any faction. This is also considered griefing if it is not done with the approval of the owner(s) of the base, so please don't do that. Again, overly aggressive griefing will be dealt with.

Other than that, **be nice**, **respect others** and above all else, **have fun**. Hit the full stop, or *dot*, to open the textchat in game and chat us up, or preferrably join the discord channel (see [Discord](#discord)).

# Reset times

All times shown here are in relation to [Norwegian Time][nortime] which currently is following **CEST - Central European Summer Time** a.k.a **GMT+2**.

## Summary

* The server performs a **restart** every **morning** at **03:00**.
* **Deposits** on planets reset every **morning** at **03:00**.
* Points of Interests (**POI**s) reset every **Tuesday** and **Friday** at **03:00** .
  * This includes ore **asteroids**

## More information

Every morning at 03:00 the server performs a restart. Players will be warned in advance, usually about 15 minutes before, 10 minutes before and 5 minutes before. Players should
log out to avoid anomalies. The restart doesn't take long *(need info here)* so if you want to keep playing, wait for it to reappear in your server list to rejoin.

Planetary deposits resets during this server restart. This will in most cases reset the terrain above the deposits, but depending on how big of an area of the surrounding terrain has been mined there may still be artefacts of mining present. The ores should be back, however.

POIs are reset twice a week, every Tuesday and Friday during server restart. Structures will then respawn, surrounding terrain should be reset, and loot inside will be randomized.

**Warning:** Please read the section on [Known Issues](#known-issues) further below for information about **Autominers**.

# Project Eden

This server is running the [Project Eden][pe] custom scenario.

This scenario adjusts balance in multiple ways, and if you're interested in a full rundown of all its facets, please follow the above link to the Steam Workshop page for all the information you want.

Here, however, are some of the most important changes this scenario brings, compared to the standard game.

* Ore distribution has changed

    Starter planets does not have Cobalt. Zascosium and Erestrum is not found in the starting system, so in order to find some you either have to raid POIs and hope to get some, or create a minimal CV with warp capabilities in order to find nearby systems which has these resources. This change was done to slow down the progress towards end game.
* Many many many more POI types

    Expect many more diverse wreckages and ruins scattered across the universe. The Project Eden scenario contains over 1000 custom POI structures, in addition to all the ones found in the standard game. This makes the game more enjoyable as there is much more variety to the places you visit.
* Almost all deposits on planets use the "nugget style" instead of the "different texture" style. Having an Ore Detector in your inventory is a good idea.
* More diverse starting planets, and more starting planets in general
* Custom created planets and moons, in rare cases to have an extreme amount of a certain type of resource

# Factions

Every new player joins the **Human** faction. It is recommended that you leave this faction and create your own for you and your friends, instead of staying in the common Human faction.

**Warning:** If you have already built bases or vessels in the game before you opt to move to your own faction, *remember* to set everything as **Private** in the control panel of each construct before leaving the Human faction. If you forget, you lose access to your creation. If this happens to you, please ask for admin help to fix this.

The reason behind this recommendation is that if you're in a faction with many other players, you lose the ability to share your bases and vessels with only a select group of people, as the only choices you have are private (aka only you), or everybody in the faction. You *can* set codes on many blocks to allow only people who know the code to use them, but this gets very cumbersome fast.

Additionally, if someone goes to war against Polaris, and the Human faction ends up with Hostile faction relationship with them, your bases will be attacked by Polaris, and more importantly, *you will lose access to their trading stations*. As such, you want to be in control of your own fate.

If, as a new player, you end up inheriting hostile relationship with Talon or Polaris, and this is brought over to your new faction, please ask for admin help to rectify this.

# Server Settings

The [Empyrion][egs] game has plenty of settings, so here is a list of the settings that have been specifically set for this server.

* Difficulty: **Hard**

    Enemies are tougher to kill and hit harder. Expect more drones in sectors. POIs can be deadly *(but they are still possible*).
* CPU Points: **Disabled**

    Please read more about the [CPU Efficiency][cpu] if you want more information, but the important part is that CPU points and thus (in)efficiency have been turned off on this server. All bases and vessels always operate at 100% CPU efficiency regardless of presence of CPU Extenders. Some players, like me, still like to make the constructs CPU Compliant, but this is a personal choice and by no means necessary. See the [Hints](#hints) section further below for some information about how this might impact your gameplay.
* Check Mass / Volume: **Disabled**

    You are a superhuman. You can carry big constructors and thousands of big steel blocks without breaking a sweat. Cargo containers only check the amount of occupied slots inside, not what you have in them. You will likely see this in game as a "X / Y" ratio down and to the right of all inventories and the X can *far* overshoot the Y. This is not a problem. The reason for this decision is that most players feel that playing with volume and weight limits enabled makes the game much much more of a hassle than it makes it fun, so this has been turned off.
* Auto Miner Depletion: **Disabled**

    Autominers does not deplete deposits. However, see [Known Issues](#known-issues) below for some *important* information about autominers on this server.
* Keep inventory on death: **Nothing**

    When you die, a backpack container will be dropped with **all** the belongings you had on you. This includes everything in your inventory **and** on your toolbar. It does **not**, however, include your armor and boosts inserted into it. Everything else, however, is dropped.
* Blueprints: **Allowed**

    See the section [Hints](#hints) below for some more information about blueprints.

# Chatbot

A chatbot has been activated on the server. You can access it by typing in `cb:?` in any of the textchat tabs. Try using the faction tab to minimze the spam for others. Make sure to spell it correct, you need both the colon and the question mark for it to be valid.

The chatbot can help with some common issues, such as moving you to a nearby ship, or getting information about when things happen on the server. The `cb:?` command will give you a list of all supported commands. Note that some of these commands give you "cheat like" functions, such as the one which moves you to your ship. They are, however, a crutch to lean on if bugs crop up and no admin is online. Use with caution.

# Admin services

The [Empyrion][egs] game is not bug free. There are some minor issues that crop up from time to time. If you need help resolving an issue that can be attributed to a bug in the game, please ask for help from an admin. Admins are not always on, so there might not be an immediate resolution to your issue, but please ask in game for help and the online players will help if they can.

Examples of services an admin can help with:

* Restoring a broken vessel from backup
* Move you, or your vessels
* Change the faction or ownership of structures
* Refund lost materials or gear

Also see [Known Issues](#known-issues) further below for some of the usual stuff in this regard.

Note that an admin will probably not help you with restoring lost vessels or materials that were lost because of normal gameplay. For instance, if you venture into
a level 10 Zirax area and your ship is shot down, with all your resources, you need to be prepared to handle that loss and possibly fight to get your ship or stuff
back. This is part of the game. Bugs, however, should ot be.

# Hints

Here are a bunch of helpful hints to help you play [Empyrion][egs] on the **F12** server (or just in general).

* You can use your drone (hit F5) to pick up your backpack, if you can get close enough to it, and the drone has unobstructed access to it
* In the very early stages of the game, it might be more efficient to just die of hunger than to constantly deal with finding materials for creating 1 food unit
* If you find a really nice blueprint on the [Workshop][workshop], that is CPU compliant (usually says CPU T2, T3 or T4), but it is too costly for you to build in game (the Optronic parts are usually the culprits), a tip is to create a creative local savegame. Spawn it in creative mode (which is free), take out the parts you don't need (like these CPU Extenders), point at the construct and hit Alt+O and save your modified construct under a new blueprint name, and then you can build this one on the server instead.
* If you subscribe to blueprints in the workshop, remember to exit the game completely to get them loaded into the game. The download is performed by the Steam client, and it will only do so once the game has completely exited. This also means you need to have Steam running to get the blueprints downloaded. After they are downloaded you can log back into the game, and they will appear in the Blueprint section in your control panel.
* To make a cargo container or other block available for use by non-faction people, you can set a code to it. People who know the code can then use it by inputting it every time they want to use the block. If you want everyone to be able to use it, you can use the special code `0000`, as the block will then become public and no code input will be required. Note that this does not allow people to remove the block with a Multi Tool, only to *operate* it.

# Known Issues

* Sometimes you can get stuck in an endless loading screen while loading structures. It happens rarely, but it does happen. This is most likely a bug in the game and nothing with the server, as most players can resolve this by forcibly quitting the game (Alt+F4) and retrying. Sometimes it takes several attempts. A theory is that the bug is related to loading of complex structures and playfields, so depending on where you are in the game it may occur more or less often.
* Sometimes after having loaded in you notice that your base or your ships seems to be cut in half, turned off, and you might be standing on rock below where the missing portions of your ship or base is located. If this happens, try to move to a spot where you *know* that you are inside your base, or on safe ground, and then relog. This is a loading bug in 99.99% cases and a relog usually fixes this straight away. If something is still missing after one or two such relogs, please seek help from an admin.
* Autominers placed on deposits will be **wiped** during server restart every morning at 03:00. You can use Autominers on this server, but you **must** retrieve them **and** their content before server reset or you *will lose them*. If this has already happened to you because you did not know about this problem, please seek admin help. This is an issue with the way the deposits are reset and not by choice. As such there is nothing we can do about this problem right now other than to be aware of it.

# Location

The server is located in Oslo, Norway. This is rather unimportant to most people but if you have very high latency to the server, this might be important.

# Contact Information

This page maintained by Cabbot a.k.a Lasse Vågsæther Karlsen. If there is anything wrong or missing on this page, or you have suggestions for additional content to add, feel free to chat me up in game or by [sending me an email](mailto:lasse@vkarlsen.no?subject=F12+Server+Information), you can also file an issue [here](https://github.com/lassevk/lassevk.github.io/issues/new).

  [pe]: https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=1742662471
  [egs]: https://store.steampowered.com/app/383120/Empyrion__Galactic_Survival/
  [joindiscord]: https://discord.gg/ataYfPV
  [nortime]: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/norway/oslo
  [cpu]: https://steamcommunity.com/app/383120/discussions/0/1660069015239758140/
  [workshop]: https://steamcommunity.com/app/383120/workshop/
